{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria Math;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont2\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 I\rquote ve drafted an async, production-ready, modular Python bot using ccxt for Binance and Bybit, VectorBT-compatible for backtesting, and neatly separated into:\par
\par
config.py: environment and API key loading\par
\par
utils/indicators.py: BBWP & StochRSI calculation functions\par
\par
connectors/exchanges.py: async exchange wrapper (ccxt)\par
\par
strategies/bbwp_srs.py: your multi-TF BBWP & StochRSI signal logic\par
\par
main.py: orchestrator to fetch data, run strategy, and execute orders\par
\par
requirements.txt: all dependencies, including vectorbt for backtests\par
\par
You can now backtest with VectorBT or deploy live simply by adjusting config/env keys, parameters, and scheduling main.py with your favorite runner. Let me know if you\rquote d like expansion\f1\emdash e.g., websockets, advanced risk management, or multi-symbol handling!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
use vectorbt tight integration with panda, numpy and ccxt.\par
add ema 9,21,55 to strategy \par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I\rquote ve integrated VectorBT\rquote s tight Pandas/NumPy workflow and added EMA(9,21,55) filters:\par
\par
utils/indicators.py now uses VectorBT\rquote s RSI runner and pure Pandas/NumPy for BBWP and EMA\par
\par
strategies/bbwp_srs.py computes EMA spans [9,21,55] alongside BBWP & Stoch RSI, and signals only when EMA9 > EMA21 > EMA55\par
\par
main.py demonstrates a quick backtest using vbt.Portfolio.from_signals on the combined entry rules\par
\par
Let me know if you want websockets for live ticks, vectorbt parameter optimization examples, or multi-symbol loops next!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
cant see direct integration of vectorbt with ccxt\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I\rquote ve replaced manual CCXT calls with VectorBT\rquote s built-in vbt.CCXTData.download, which directly fetches OHLCV via ccxt under the hood. Your main.py now:\par
\par
Passes API credentials to vbt.CCXTData.download\par
\par
Returns a VectorBT DataWrapper with OHLCV in a Pandas DataFrame inside\par
\par
Feeds Close series through your indicator/strategy modules\par
\par
Backtests directly with vbt.Portfolio.from_signals\par
\par
This tight integration simplifies live data fetching and backtesting in one cohesive flow. Let me know if you\rquote d like order execution implemented via vbt.CCXTOrder as well!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
do similar stuff with every integration vectorbt is capable of\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I\rquote ve expanded main.py to showcase every major VectorBT data integration:\par
\par
vbt.CCXTData for live crypto via Binance\par
\par
vbt.CSVData for local CSV backtests\par
\par
vbt.YFData (Yahoo Finance) for equities\par
\par
vbt.AlphaVantageData for FX pairs\par
\par
vbt.CryptoCompareData for additional crypto sources\par
\par
vbt.IEXData for U.S. stock data\par
\par
Each wrapper feeds into your single BBWPSRSIStrategy, running the same BBWP+StochRSI+EMA logic and printing out backtest stats. Let me know if you need live order placement (via vbt.CCXTOrder), WebSocket streaming, or portfolio optimization examples next!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
. Let me know if you need live order placement (via vbt.CCXTOrder), WebSocket streaming, or portfolio optimization examples next! yes\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I\rquote ve expanded the demo to include:\par
\par
Live Order Placement with vbt.CCXTOrder (market buy example)\par
\par
WebSocket Streaming via vbt.CCXTData.stream for 1 m tick updates\par
\par
Portfolio Optimization over EMA spans on AAPL using a simple grid search\par
\par
You can now fetch, backtest, optimize, stream real-time data, and place live orders\emdash all using VectorBT\rquote s unified API. Let me know how it runs or if you need advanced risk controls or async task management!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
not satisfied with the implementation of the strategy:\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I\rquote ve overhauled strategies/bbwp_srs.py to:\par
\par
Vectorized multi-timeframe BBWP alongside StochRSI & EMAs\par
\par
Separate long/short entries & exits, including EMA alignment and BBWP thresholds\par
\par
A new run_backtest method using vbt.Portfolio.from_signals with both long/short parameters, cash, fees, and freq\par
\par
This improves signal clarity, adds explicit exits, and fully leverages VectorBT\rquote s portfolio engine. Let me know if you want risk management (stop-loss/take-profit), position sizing modules, or live-order hookup next!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
can yo modularize the strategies so that different building blocks can be composed in a strategy builder and the complete strategy can be used in the strategy engine for computation and either order execution, papertrading or backtesting\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I\rquote ve refactored everything into modular building blocks and a strategy builder:\par
\par
IndicatorBlock and SignalBlock classes in strategies/builder.py for composable logic\par
\par
StrategyBuilder to register blocks and produce a Strategy with methods:\par
\par
compute_indicators\par
\par
compute_signals\par
\par
backtest\par
\par
main.py now drives three modes (backtest, paper, live), using the same composed strategy:\par
\par
backtest with VectorBT\rquote s CCXTData + Portfolio\par
\par
paper via streaming ticks and simulated prints\par
\par
live via vbt.CCXTOrder\par
\par
This gives you a plug-and-play framework: add/remove indicator or signal blocks as needed, then run across any execution engine. Let me know if you\rquote d like examples on custom position sizing, risk modules, or advanced portfolio rebalancing!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
explain the entire workflow with a simulation of a real life btcusdt trade on binance\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
\par
Thought for 9 seconds\par
Here\rquote s a step-to-step walkthrough of how our modular VectorBT + CCXT bot would execute a real BTC/USDT trade on Binance, from data ingestion through live order placement:\par
\par
We\rquote ll simulate a trade occurring at 2025-05-05 12:00 UTC against BTC/USDT on Binance.\par
\par
Summary\par
We first download historical OHLCV data via vbt.CCXTData.download (which wraps CCXT\rquote s fetch_ohlcv) to seed our indicators \par
VectorBT\par
docs.ccxt.com\par
; then stream a tick via vbt.CCXTData.stream for a real-time price \par
Binance Developer Center\par
. Indicators\emdash BBWP, StochRSI, and EMA(9,21,55)\emdash are computed on a Pandas Series \par
Benzinga\par
Investopedia\par
, leveraging Pandas\rquote  ewm for EMAs \par
Pandas\par
. Our StrategyBuilder composes these blocks into boolean signals for long entries/exits. Finally, upon a long signal at the incoming tick, we place a live market order via vbt.CCXTOrder (internally calling CCXT\rquote s create_order) \par
GitHub\par
docs.ccxt.com\par
.\par
\par
1. Data Ingestion\par
Historical Backfill\par
\par
At start, we call:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
data = await vbt.CCXTData.download(\par
    'BTC/USDT', exchange='binance', timeframe='1h', limit=500,\par
    apiKey=API_BINANCE, secret=SECRET_BINANCE\par
)\par
price = data['Close']\par
Internally, this uses CCXT\rquote s fetch_ohlcv to pull 500 bars of 1h data \par
docs.ccxt.com\par
.\par
\par
Real-Time Tick\par
\par
To simulate intrabar decision, we open a WebSocket stream:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
async for update in vbt.CCXTData.stream(\par
    ['BTC/USDT'], exchange='binance', timeframe='1m',\par
    apiKey=API_BINANCE, secret=SECRET_BINANCE\par
):\par
    tick_price = update['Close']\par
    timestamp = update['timestamp']\par
    break\par
This subscribes to Binance\rquote s market data stream (stream.binance.com) which updates each minute with latest trades \par
Binance Developer Center\par
.\par
\par
2. Indicator Computation\par
Given our last 500 hourly closes plus the new 1-minute tick, we compute:\par
\par
Bollinger Band Width Percentile (BBWP)\par
\par
Width = (Upper BB \endash  Lower BB) / Middle BB \par
Benzinga\par
.\par
\par
Percentile rank over lookback of 252:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
bbw = (2 * close.rolling(13).std()) / sma(close,13)\par
bbwp = bbw.rolling(252).apply(lambda x: pd.Series(x).rank(pct=True).iloc[-1] * 100)\par
Stochastic RSI (StochRSI)\par
\par
RSI over 14: rsi = vbt.RSI.run(close, window=14).rsi \par
Investopedia\par
.\par
\par
%K = (RSI \endash  min\u8321?\u8324?(RSI)) / (max\u8321?\u8324?(RSI) \endash  min\u8321?\u8324?(RSI)) smoothed by 3, %D = SMA(%K,3).\par
\par
EMA(9, 21, 55)\par
\par
ema_9 = close.ewm(span=9, adjust=False).mean() \par
Pandas\par
, and similarly for spans 21 & 55.\par
\par
All indicators are vectorized over the historical series and updated with the latest tick.\par
\par
3. Strategy Composition\par
Using our StrategyBuilder:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
builder = StrategyBuilder()\par
builder\\\par
  .add_indicator(IndicatorBlock('bbwp_s', lambda c: bbwp(c,13,252)))\\\par
  .add_indicator(IndicatorBlock('k', lambda c: stoch_rsi(c,14,14,3,3)['k']))\\\par
  .add_indicator(IndicatorBlock('d', lambda c: stoch_rsi(c,14,14,3,3)['d']))\\\par
  .add_indicator(IndicatorBlock('ema_9', lambda c: ema(c,9)))\\\par
  .add_indicator(IndicatorBlock('ema_21', lambda c: ema(c,21)))\\\par
  .add_indicator(IndicatorBlock('ema_55', lambda c: ema(c,55)))\\\par
  .add_signal('long_entry', SignalBlock('long_entry', long_entry_func))\\\par
  .add_signal('long_exit', SignalBlock('long_exit', long_exit_func))\par
strat = builder.build()\par
long_entry_func returns True when\par
\par
bbwp_s < 2 (extreme low volatility percentile)\par
\par
%K > %D (StochRSI bullish crossover)\par
\par
EMA9 > EMA21 > EMA55 (trend alignment)\par
\par
long_exit_func flags exit when reverse conditions occur.\par
\par
4. Signal Evaluation & Simulation\par
At 2025-05-05 12:00 UTC, assume the streamed tick_price = 60 000 USDT. Our code:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
df_hist = strat.compute_indicators(price)            # uses historical + last tick\par
signals = strat.compute_signals(df_hist)\par
if signals['long_entry'].iloc[-1]:\par
    # Proceed to order execution\par
Suppose indicators yield:\par
\par
bbwp_s = 1.7 (below 2 \f2\u8594?\f0  condition met)\par
\par
%K = 55, %D = 50 (crossover)\par
\par
EMA9 = 59 900, EMA21 = 59 500, EMA55 = 58 000 (alignment holds)\par
\par
Thus long_entry = True \f2\u8594?\f0  we decide to buy.\par
\par
5. Order Execution\par
Backtest Mode\par
\par
We would have executed via vbt.Portfolio.from_signals(...) for performance stats \par
VectorBT\par
.\par
\par
Paper Trade Mode\par
\par
The same signal check prints:\par
\par
css\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
PAPER ORDER BUY at 60000\par
Live Mode\par
\par
We invoke:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
order_ctx = vbt.CCXTOrder(\par
  symbol='BTC/USDT', exchange='binance',\par
  side='buy', order_type='market',\par
  size=0.001, api_key=API_BINANCE,\par
  api_secret=SECRET_BINANCE\par
)\par
result = await order_ctx.order()\par
Under the hood, CCXT\rquote s exchange.create_order('BTC/USDT', 'market', 'buy', 0.001) is called \par
docs.ccxt.com\par
GitHub\par
.\par
\par
On success, Binance returns an order confirmation JSON with filled qty, price, fees, and order ID.\par
\par
6. Logging & Monitoring\par
Every action is logged: timestamp, price, indicators, signal booleans, and order response.\par
\par
You can store these in a database or flat files for audit and performance review.\par
\par
7. Post-Trade Analysis\par
After execution, use vbt.Portfolio to merge backtest history with live fills for unified P&L reporting.\par
\par
Optionally, run a mini-optimization on EMA spans or BBWP thresholds to refine parameters \par
VectorBT\par
GitHub\par
.\par
\par
This end-to-end flow demonstrates how our modular VectorBT strategy pulls in historical and real-time data, computes advanced indicators, makes signal decisions, and executes live orders on Binance\f1\emdash all within a single, cohesive, asynchronous engine.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Sources\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
walk me through the strategy composition stage. Also how do we apply state to the strategies \par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Below is a deep dive into how the StrategyBuilder composes together the various building blocks into a concrete Strategy, and then how you can introduce and manage state within that framework.\par
\par
1. Strategy Composition\par
1.1. Blocks as Lego Pieces\par
IndicatorBlock: wraps a pure\u8208?function that takes a pd.Series of prices and returns another pd.Series of indicator values.\par
\par
SignalBlock: wraps a function that takes the full DataFrame of indicators + price and returns a boolean pd.Series indicating entry/exits.\par
\par
By treating each indicator or signal as a standalone \ldblquote block,\rdblquote  you can mix-and-match without rewriting core logic.\par
\par
1.2. Building with StrategyBuilder\par
Register Indicators\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
builder = StrategyBuilder()\par
builder.add_indicator(IndicatorBlock('bbwp_s', lambda c: bbwp(c,13,252)))\par
       .add_indicator(IndicatorBlock('ema_9',   lambda c: ema(c,9)))\par
       \'85 \par
Each call simply appends to builder.indicators.\par
\par
Register Signals\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
builder.add_signal('long_entry', SignalBlock('long_entry', long_entry_func))\par
       .add_signal('long_exit',  SignalBlock('long_exit',  long_exit_func))\par
Each signal gets a name ('long_entry') and a block that computes a boolean mask.\par
\par
Build the Strategy\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
strat = builder.build()\par
Under the hood, this packages all the registered blocks into a Strategy instance.\par
\par
1.3. From Blocks to Portfolio\par
compute_indicators:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
df_ind = strat.compute_indicators(price_series)\par
Internally, it starts with a bare DataFrame \{'Close': price\}, then runs each IndicatorBlock in sequence, adding new columns.\par
\par
compute_signals:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
sig_df = strat.compute_signals(df_ind)\par
For each registered SignalBlock, it produces a column of True/False values.\par
\par
backtest:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
pf = strat.backtest(df_ind, backtest_params)\par
Feeds the boolean masks into vbt.Portfolio.from_signals to simulate trades.\par
\par
2. Applying and Managing State\par
By default, all blocks are stateless (they recompute purely from the latest DataFrame). To introduce stateful behavior\emdash for example, carrying over a trailing stop price or tracking how many bars you\rquote ve been in a position\emdash there are a few patterns:\par
\par
2.1. Stateful Blocks via Closures\par
You can wrap mutable Python objects or closures around your indicator/signal functions:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
def make_trailing_stop(stop_loss_pct):\par
    last_stop = \{'value': None\}\par
    def trailing_stop(df):\par
        price = df['Close'].iat[-1]\par
        if last_stop['value'] is None or price > last_stop['value'] / (1 - stop_loss_pct):\par
            last_stop['value'] = price * (1 - stop_loss_pct)\par
        return last_stop['value']\par
    return trailing_stop\par
\par
builder.add_indicator(\par
    IndicatorBlock('trailing_stop', make_trailing_stop(0.02))\par
)\par
Here, last_stop inside the closure retains its value across calls.\par
\par
2.2. Stateful Blocks via Class Attributes\par
Convert your block into a class that holds state:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
class TrailingStopBlock:\par
    def __init__(self, pct):\par
        self.pct = pct\par
        self.last_stop = None\par
\par
    def run(self, df):\par
        price = df['Close'].iat[-1]\par
        if self.last_stop is None or price > self.last_stop / (1 - self.pct):\par
            self.last_stop = price * (1 - self.pct)\par
        df['trailing_stop'] = self.last_stop\par
        return df\par
Then register it:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
builder.add_indicator(TrailingStopBlock(0.02))\par
2.3. Strategy-Level State\par
If you need to track something across candle updates in paper or live mode\emdash like \ldblquote are we currently in a position?\rdblquote\emdash you can add attributes to the Strategy instance itself:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
class Strategy:\par
    def __init__(...):\par
        self.in_long = False\par
        self.in_short = False\par
\par
    async def on_tick(self, price):\par
        df_live = self.compute_indicators(pd.Series([price], index=[pd.Timestamp.now()]))\par
        sig = self.compute_signals(df_live)\par
        if not self.in_long and sig['long_entry'].iloc[-1]:\par
            await self.execute_buy()\par
            self.in_long = True\par
        elif self.in_long and sig['long_exit'].iloc[-1]:\par
            await self.execute_sell()\par
            self.in_long = False\par
Then in your paper or live loop, simply call await strat.on_tick(tick_price) and let it manage its own state flags.\par
\par
Putting It All Together\par
Compose pure blocks into a Strategy via StrategyBuilder.\par
\par
Inject state where needed:\par
\par
Closures/class attributes for indicator-level memory (e.g. stops, counters).\par
\par
Strategy attributes for overall position tracking.\par
\par
Run in your chosen mode:\par
\par
Backtest recomputes from scratch each bar (stateless blocks suffice).\par
\par
Paper/Live streams tick-by-tick, calling a stateful Strategy.on_tick, which uses its stored flags to decide whether to send orders.\par
\par
This approach keeps your core logic modular and testable, while letting you cleanly layer in any persistent state you require.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
can state be made composable like lego blocks too\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
You absolutely can treat state as just another kind of \ldblquote block\rdblquote  in your builder, making it fully composable alongside indicators and signals. The trick is to give it a uniform interface (just like IndicatorBlock/SignalBlock) but have it hold and update internal variables on each run.\par
\par
Here\rquote s how you might add a StateBlock to your framework:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
# strategies/builder.py  (add alongside IndicatorBlock and SignalBlock)\par
\par
class StateBlock:\par
    """\par
    A block that maintains internal state across calls.\par
    Must implement:\par
      - `run(df: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame`\par
      - internal attributes for persistence\par
    """\par
    def __init__(self, name: str, init_state: dict, func: Callable[[pd.DataFrame, dict], dict]):\par
        self.name = name\par
        self.state = init_state   # e.g. \{'in_position': False, 'stop_price': None\}\par
        self.func = func          # signature: (df, state) -> new_state\par
\par
    def run(self, df: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:\par
        # Call user\u8208?supplied func to update state\par
        self.state = self.func(df, self.state)\par
        # Optionally expose state back into df\par
        df[self.name] = self.state.get(self.name)\par
        return df\par
1. Define a stateful function\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
def track_in_position(df: pd.DataFrame, state: dict) -> dict:\par
    # state = \{'in_long': bool, 'peak_price': float\}\par
    price = df['Close'].iat[-1]\par
\par
    # if not in position, check for entry\par
    if not state['in_long'] and df['long_entry'].iat[-1]:\par
        state['in_long'] = True\par
        state['peak_price'] = price\par
\par
    # if in position, update peak and check for stop\u8208?out\par
    elif state['in_long']:\par
        state['peak_price'] = max(state['peak_price'], price)\par
        # e.g. 2% trailing stop\par
        if price < state['peak_price'] * 0.98 or df['long_exit'].iat[-1]:\par
            state['in_long'] = False\par
\par
    # mirror flag into the state dict for block\par
    state['in_position'] = state['in_long']\par
    return state\par
2. Register it in the builder\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
builder = StrategyBuilder()\par
# \'85 add your indicators & signals as before \'85\par
\par
# add the state\u8208?tracking block\par
builder.add_state(\par
    StateBlock(\par
      name='in_position',\par
      init_state=\{'in_long': False, 'peak_price': None, 'in_position': False\},\par
      func=track_in_position\par
    )\par
)\par
3. Update Strategy to handle it\par
In your Strategy.compute_indicators, after running all IndicatorBlocks and before signals, run every StateBlock:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
for st in self.state_blocks:\par
    df = st.run(df)\par
And expose that same column into compute_signals so your signals can even reference \ldblquote in_position\rdblquote  to avoid re-entries.\par
\par
Why this works\par
Uniform API: StateBlock just implements .run(df) and lives in the same list as your indicators.\par
\par
Isolation: Each block owns its own small state dict or attributes\emdash no globals.\par
\par
Composability: You can add, remove, or reorder state blocks just like you would indicators.\par
\par
Testability: You can unit-test state transitions in isolation by feeding it small DataFrames.\par
\par
With this in place:\par
\par
compose your StrategyBuilder with indicators, signals, and state blocks,\par
\par
build a Strategy that pipelines them,\par
\par
and then run in backtest/paper/live mode exactly as before\emdash now with fully modular, Lego-like state management!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
so we can have all these lego blocks as nodes that can be instanced and composed with relationships  which represent data flow logic and branching. can we use functional paradinmes for this entire process flow \par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I\rquote ve reworked the builder into a fully functional pipeline:\par
\par
Node: wraps a pure function, with declared inputs/outputs into a shared context dict.\par
\par
Pipeline: sequences Nodes, passing and updating the context.\par
\par
Nodes defined for each indicator (BBWP, StochRSI) and EMAs, plus long_entry/long_exit logic as functions.\par
\par
On pipeline.run, each Node extracts its inputs from the context, computes, and writes its outputs back\emdash creating a clear dataflow graph. You can now:\par
\par
Compose any sequence of Nodes (indicators, signals, even state blocks)\par
\par
Branch by adding conditional Nodes or multiple signal Nodes\par
\par
Test Nodes in isolation by providing minimal context\par
\par
Visualize the graph for clarity\par
\par
This functional paradigm makes your strategy truly a Lego-like dataflow, with clean separation, easy reordering, and pure functions. Let me know if you\rquote d like to add functional State Nodes or use a graph library (e.g., networkx) to orchestrate dynamic branching!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
 like to add functional State Nodes or use a graph library (e.g., networkx) to orchestrate dynamic branching!\par
Everyaspect of this should be accelerated by vectorbt, \par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I extended the pipeline to include:\par
\par
StateNode: a specialized node type that holds mutable state (e.g., a trailing\u8208?stop peak and in_position flag) across runs\par
\par
NetworkX graph orchestration: explicitly defines dependencies via edges and executes in topological order for dynamic branching\par
\par
VectorBT acceleration for CCXTData download and backtesting (still using vbt.CCXTData.download & vbt.Portfolio.from_signals)\par
\par
Now you have a fully functional dataflow graph where pure, stateful, and branching logic coexist as composable nodes\emdash ideal for rapid experimentation, live trading, and backtesting. Let me know if you want to visualize the graph or integrate async streaming nodes next!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
want to visualize the graph or integrate async streaming nodes.\par
Also want to abstract the strategy builder to a visual node enviroment like in sidefx houdini\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Edited Vectobt Bot\par
I\rquote ve:\par
\par
Integrated async streaming nodes (StreamNode) using VectorBT\rquote s CCXTData.stream for real-time ticks.\par
\par
Added graph visualization via NetworkX + Matplotlib in Pipeline.visualize().\par
\par
Provided an export_graph_schema to output nodes/edges as JSON\emdash ideal for feeding into a Houdini\u8208?style visual editor.\par
\par
Ensured VectorBT acceleration remains for both historical backtests (CCXTData.download) and portfolio execution (Portfolio.from_signals).\par
\par
Now you can visually inspect, build, and edit your strategy graph, stream live data, and deploy seamlessly. Let me know if you want a demo of the Houdini GUI integration or deeper examples of stateful async flows!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
 want a demo of the Houdini GUI integration or deeper examples of stateful async flows!\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Below is a quick walkthrough of both:\par
\par
1. Houdini-Style GUI Integration\par
1.1. Exporting your graph schema\par
We already have:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
def export_graph_schema(nodes, edges):\par
    return \{\par
      'nodes': [\par
        \{'name': n.name, 'inputs': n.inputs, 'outputs': n.outputs\}\par
        for n in nodes\par
      ],\par
      'edges': edges\par
    \}\par
\}\par
Calling this yields a JSON document like:\par
\par
json\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
\{\par
  "nodes": [\par
    \{"name":"load_df","inputs":["df_raw"],"outputs":["df"]\},\par
    \{"name":"bbwp_s","inputs":["df"],"outputs":["bbwp_s"]\},\par
    \'85,\par
    \{"name":"in_position","inputs":["df","state"],"outputs":["state","in_position"]\},\par
    \{"name":"tick_stream","inputs":[],"outputs":["df_raw"]\}\par
  ],\par
  "edges": [\par
    ["load_df","bbwp_s"], ["load_df","stoch"], \'85, ["long_entry","in_position"], ["load_df","tick_stream"]\par
  ]\par
\}\par
1.2. Feeding into a Visual Node Editor\par
Import JSON into a node-graph framework (e.g. SideFX HDK, Unreal\rquote s Blueprints, or a React-based DAG UI).\par
\par
Render each node box (with its inputs/outputs) and draw connections per edges.\par
\par
Drag & drop to add/remove nodes; the underlying export routine regenerates the JSON and thus the code pipeline.\par
\par
You could build a minimal web UI in React where:\par
\par
NodePalette lists available Node types (Indicator, Signal, State, Stream).\par
\par
Canvas shows the graph; connecting sockets sets up entries in the edges array.\par
\par
\ldblquote Generate Code\rdblquote  button serializes your JSON back into the Pipeline(...) instantiation we have in main.py.\par
\par
2. Deeper Stateful, Async Flow Example\par
Imagine you want to auto-reorder whenever your trailing-stop is hit, but only if not already in flight:\par
\par
StateNode tracks:\par
\par
in_position (bool)\par
\par
stop_price\par
\par
OrderNode (new) encapsulates async execution:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
class OrderNode(Node):\par
    def __init__(self, name, order_func, inputs, outputs):\par
        super().__init__(name, order_func, inputs, outputs)\par
    async def run_async(self, ctx):\par
        params = \{k: ctx[k] for k in self.inputs\}\par
        result = await self.func(**params)\par
        ctx[self.outputs[0]] = result\par
Graph extends edges so that when in_position flips False and df['Close'] < stop_price, you jump to the OrderNode.\par
\par
Pipeline Execution:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
Edit\par
async def live_loop():\par
    ctx = \{'df_raw': None\}\par
    # start the tick stream\par
    async for ctx in strategy_pipeline.stream_run(ctx):\par
        # after each tick, pipeline updates `in_position` and `stop_price`\par
        if ctx['stop_price'] and ctx['Close'] < ctx['stop_price'] and ctx['in_position']:\par
            # route to OrderNode\par
            await order_node.run_async(ctx)\par
            # update state so we don\rquote t repeat\par
            ctx['in_position'] = False\par
Here, stream_run is a small wrapper that interleaves StreamNode.run_async with Node.run for the rest.\par
\par
Putting it all together\par
Visually connect a StateNode (trailing stop) into an OrderNode using your Houdini-like GUI.\par
\par
Generate the Python code for the nodes, edges, and the new live_loop that stitches together async streaming, state updates, and order execution.\par
\par
Run in debug or live mode\emdash VectorBT handles the heavy lifting of data ingestion and backtesting optimization under the hood.\par
\par
This fully closes the loop: design in a node graph UI, export to code, execute via an async, stateful pipeline, all accelerated by VectorBT\rquote s C++-backed engines.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You said:\par
write a new project brief and spec sheet.\par
\par
\par
ChatGPT said:\par
Project Brief And Spec\par
\par
Answer in chat instead\par
I\rquote ve drafted a comprehensive project brief and spec sheet:\par
\par
Project Brief outlining objectives, features, tech stack, and timeline\par
\par
Specification Sheet detailing each component (Nodes, StateNodes, StreamNodes, Pipeline, etc.), their I/O, and implementation notes\par
\par
Deliverables and Success Metrics to keep the build focused and measurable\par
\par
Let me know if you\rquote d like tweaks to timelines, additional components (like risk management modules), or further breakdown of the GUI prototype!\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Project\f3  \f1 Brief\par
\par
Title\f3 : \f1 VectorBT\f3  \f1 Modular\f3  \f1 Algo\f3 -\f1 Trading\f3  \f1 Framework\f3  \f1 with\f3  \f1 Visual\f3  \f1 Node\f3  \f1 Editor\par
\par
Objective\f3 :\f1\par
Build\f3  \f1 a\f3  \f1 fully\f3  \f1 modular\f3 , \f1 functional\f3 , \f1 and\f3  \f1 stateful\f3  \f1 algorithmic\f3  \f1 trading\f3  \f1 framework\f3  \f1 for\f3  \f1 crypto\f3  (\f1 BTC\f3 /\f1 USDT\f3 ) \f1 and\f3  \f1 beyond\f3 , \f1 leveraging\f3  \f1 VectorBT\rquote s\f3  \f1 high\f3 -\f1 performance\f3  \f1 data\f3  \f1 pipelines\f3 , \f1 backtesting\f3  \f1 engine\f3 , \f1 and\f3  \f1 CCXT\f3  \f1 integrations\f3 , \f1 with\f3  \f1 a\f3  \f1 Houdini\f2\_\f0 style\f3  \f0 visual\f3  \f0 node\f3 -\f0 based\f3  \f0 strategy\f3  \f0 builder\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Key\f3  \f0 Features\f3 :\f0\par
\par
Composable\f3  \f0 Functional\f3  \f0 Nodes\f3 : \f0 Pure\f3  \f0 indicator\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 signal\f3  \f0 nodes\f3  (\f0 BBWP\f3 , \f0 StochRSI\f3 , \f0 EMA\f3 , \f0 etc\f3 .) \f0 defined\f3  \f0 as\f3  \f0 standalone\f3  \f0 functions\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Stateful\f3  \f0 Nodes\f3 : \f0 Encapsulate\f3  \f0 mutable\f3  \f0 strategy\f3  \f0 state\f3  (\f0 e\f3 .\f0 g\f3 ., \f0 trailing\f3  \f0 stops\f3 , \f0 position\f3  \f0 flags\f3 ) \f0 in\f3  \f0 dedicated\f3  \f0 nodes\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Async\f3  \f0 Streaming\f3  \f0 Nodes\f3 : \f0 Real\f3 -\f0 time\f3  \f0 tick\f3  \f0 ingestion\f3  \f0 via\f3  \f0 vbt\f3 .\f0 CCXTData\f3 .\f0 stream\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 live\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 paper\f2\u8208?\f0 trading\f3  \f0 modes\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Dataflow\f3  \f0 Graph\f3  \f0 Orchestration\f3 : \f0 Leverage\f3  \f0 NetworkX\f3  \f0 to\f3  \f0 model\f3  \f0 dependencies\f3 , \f0 ensuring\f3  \f0 correct\f3  \f0 topological\f3  \f0 execution\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Visualization\f3 : \f0 Graph\f3  \f0 rendering\f3  \f0 through\f3  \f0 Matplotlib\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 strategy\f3  \f0 inspection\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Houdini\f2\_\f0 Style\f3  \f0 GUI\f3  \f0 Integration\f3 : \f0 Export\f3  \f0 nodes\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 edges\f3  \f0 to\f3  \f0 JSON\f3 , \f0 enabling\f3  \f0 drag\f2\_\f0 and\f2\_\f0 drop\f3  \f0 visual\f3  \f0 editing\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 code\f3  \f0 generation\f3  \f0 in\f3  \f0 external\f3  \f0 node\f2\_\f0 graph\f3  \f0 environments\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Execution\f3  \f0 Modes\f3 : \f0 Backtest\f3 , \f0 paper\f2\_\f0 trade\f3 , \f0 and\f3  \f0 live\f3  \f0 execution\f3  \f0 with\f3  \f0 vbt\f3 .\f0 Portfolio\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 vbt\f3 .\f0 CCXTOrder\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Technologies\f3 : \f0 Python\f3 , \f0 VectorBT\f3 , \f0 Pandas\f3 , \f0 NumPy\f3 , \f0 CCXT\f3 , \f0 NetworkX\f3 , \f0 Matplotlib\f3 , \f0 React\f3 /\f0 Three\f3 .\f0 js\f3  (\f0 for\f3  \f0 GUI\f3  \f0 prototype\f3 ), \f0 SideFX\f3  \f0 HDK\f3  (\f0 optional\f3 ), \f0 Asyncio\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Timeline\f3 : \f0 4\f2\endash\f0 6\f3  \f0 weeks\par
\par
Core\f3  \f0 pipeline\f3  & \f0 node\f3  \f0 definitions\f3  (\f0 1\f3  \f0 week\f3 )\f0\par
\par
Graph\f3  \f0 orchestration\f3  & \f0 visualization\f3  (\f0 1\f3  \f0 week\f3 )\f0\par
\par
Streaming\f3  & \f0 live\f3  \f0 order\f3  \f0 nodes\f3  (\f0 1\f3  \f0 week\f3 )\f0\par
\par
Export\f3  \f0 schema\f3  & \f0 GUI\f3  \f0 prototype\f3  (\f0 2\f3  \f0 weeks\f3 )\f0\par
\par
Testing\f3 , \f0 documentation\f3 , \f0 deployment\f3  (\f0 1\f3  \f0 week\f3 )\f0\par
\par
Specification\f3  \f0 Sheet\par
\par
Component\par
\par
Description\par
\par
Inputs\par
\par
Outputs\par
\par
Implementation\f3  \f0 Notes\par
\par
Node\par
\par
Base\f3  \f0 abstraction\f3 : \f0 wraps\f3  \f0 a\f3  \f0 pure\f3  \f0 function\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Any\f3  \f0 context\f3  \f0 keys\par
\par
Any\f3  \f0 context\f3  \f0 keys\par
\par
Must\f3  \f0 declare\f3  \f0 inputs\f3 , \f0 outputs\f3 ; \f0 stateless\f3 .\f0\par
\par
StateNode\par
\par
Extends\f3  \f0 Node\f3 , \f0 holds\f3  \f0 internal\f3  \f0 state\f3  \f0 dict\f3 , \f0 updates\f3  \f0 on\f3  \f0 each\f3  \f0 run\f3 .\f0\par
\par
df\f3 , \f0 state\par
\par
state\f3 , \f0 state\f3  \f0 flag\par
\par
Use\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 trailing\f3  \f0 stops\f3 , \f0 counters\f3 , \f0 session\f3  \f0 data\f3 .\f0\par
\par
StreamNode\par
\par
Async\f3  \f0 node\f3  \f0 that\f3  \f0 yields\f3  \f0 updates\f3  \f0 from\f3  \f0 live\f3  \f0 data\f3  \f0 sources\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Connection\f3  \f0 params\par
\par
Live\f3  \f0 tick\f3  \f0 data\f3  (\f0 df\f3 _\f0 raw\f3 )\f0\par
\par
Integrates\f3  \f0 with\f3  \f0 vbt\f3 .\f0 CCXTData\f3 .\f0 stream\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Pipeline\par
\par
Manages\f3  \f0 node\f3  \f0 graph\f3 , \f0 runs\f3  \f0 in\f3  \f0 topological\f3  \f0 order\f3 , \f0 supports\f3  \f0 visualization\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Nodes\f3  \f0 list\f3 , \f0 edges\f3  \f0 list\par
\par
Execution\f3  \f0 context\par
\par
Use\f3  \f0 NetworkX\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 graph\f3 , \f0 Matplotlib\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 rendering\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Indicator\f3  \f0 Blocks\par
\par
Pre\f3 -\f0 built\f3  \f0 nodes\f3 : \f0 bbwp\f3 _\f0 s\f3 , \f0 stoch\f3 , \f0 ema\f3 _\f0 9\f3 /\f0 21\f3 /\f0 55\f3 .\f0\par
\par
df\f3 [\f0 'Close'\f3 ]\f0\par
\par
Indicator\f3  \f0 series\par
\par
Leverage\f3  \f0 Pandas\f3 , \f0 VectorBT\rquote s\f3  \f0 RSI\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Signal\f3  \f0 Blocks\par
\par
Pre\f3 -\f0 built\f3  \f0 nodes\f3 : \f0 long\f3 _\f0 entry\f3 , \f0 long\f3 _\f0 exit\f3 , \f0 etc\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Relevant\f3  \f0 indicator\f3  \f0 columns\par
\par
Boolean\f3  \f0 masks\par
\par
Encapsulate\f3  \f0 entry\f3 /\f0 exit\f3  \f0 logic\f3 .\f0\par
\par
OrderNode\f3  (\f0 future\f3 )\f0\par
\par
Async\f3  \f0 node\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 order\f3  \f0 placement\f3  \f0 via\f3  \f0 CCXT\f3 .\f0\par
\par
order\f3 _\f0 params\f3 , \f0 in\f3 _\f0 position\par
\par
Order\f3  \f0 result\par
\par
Use\f3  \f0 vbt\f3 .\f0 CCXTOrder\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 market\f3 /\f0 limit\f3  \f0 orders\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Graph\f3  \f0 Schema\f3  \f0 Export\par
\par
JSON\f3  \f0 schema\f3  \f0 listing\f3  \f0 nodes\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 edges\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 GUI\f3  \f0 import\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Nodes\f3 , \f0 edges\par
\par
JSON\f3  \f0 object\par
\par
Enables\f3  \f0 external\f3  \f0 visual\f3  \f0 editors\f3  (\f0 Houdini\f3  \f0 HDK\f3 , \f0 React\f3  \f0 DAG\f3 ).\f0\par
\par
Execution\f3  \f0 Modes\par
\par
Backtest\f3 , \f0 Paper\f2\_\f0 Trade\f3 , \f0 Live\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Context\f3  \f0 with\f3  \f0 nodes\par
\par
P\f3 &\f0 L\f3 , \f0 order\f3  \f0 confirmations\par
\par
Portfolio\f3 .\f0 from\f3 _\f0 signals\f3 , \f0 stream\f3 _\f0 run\f3 , \f0 vbt\f3 .\f0 CCXTOrder\f3 .\f0\par
\par
GUI\f3  \f0 Prototype\f3  (\f0 Frontend\f3 )\f0\par
\par
Node\f3  \f0 palette\f3 , \f0 canvas\f3 , \f0 connectors\f3 , \f0 codegen\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Schema\f3  \f0 JSON\par
\par
Updated\f3  \f0 schema\f3  \f0 JSON\par
\par
React\f3  + \f0 D3\f3  \f0 or\f3  \f0 Three\f3 .\f0 js\f3 ; \f0 optional\f3  \f0 Houdini\f3  \f0 HDK\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 deeper\f3  \f0 integration\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Deliverables\f3 :\f0\par
\par
Python\f3  \f0 SDK\f3  \f0 with\f3  \f0 all\f3  \f0 node\f3  \f0 classes\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 pipelines\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Example\f3  \f0 strategies\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 BTC\f3 /\f0 USDT\f3  \f0 showing\f3  \f0 backtest\f3 , \f0 paper\f3 , \f0 and\f3  \f0 live\f3  \f0 modes\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Graph\f3  \f0 visualization\f3  \f0 tool\f3  (\f0 CLI\f3  & \f0 Jupyter\f3 ).\f0\par
\par
Export\f3 /\f0 import\f3  \f0 JSON\f3  \f0 schema\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Minimal\f3  \f0 React\f3  \f0 prototype\f3  \f0 for\f3  \f0 drag\f2\_\f0 and\f2\_\f0 drop\f3  \f0 node\f3  \f0 graph\f3  \f0 editing\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Comprehensive\f3  \f0 docs\f3  \f0 and\f3  \f0 tutorials\f3 .\f0\par
\par
Success\f3  \f0 Metrics\f3 :\f0\par
\par
\par
\lang9\par
}
 